agenda.md, before:

## 2015-01-20 intro, some critiques, questionnaire
## 2015-01-22 analyze the [questionnaire](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19a0O6C14zButypjcnWictvKWeyPjPjQdrps-UXzPDf8/), set up your repo
             
## 2015-01-27 **Malecki out** [hadley video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TaxJwC_MP9Q)
## 2015-01-29 **Malecki out** [lisa video](https://archive.org/details/WhatMakesAGoodDataVisualization)
             
## 2015-02-03 Tufte; gh-pages and jekyll

Read the [jekyll/gh-pages basics](https://pages.github.com/) and a [more in-depth tutorial](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/01/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/), and/or yet [another tutorial](http://24ways.org/2013/get-started-with-github-pages/).

> - Presentation: some rules of thumb for good (static) graphs?
> - Presentation: serving jekyll locally; including different kinds of content
   
## 2015-02-05 ggplot and grammar

Fork, build, and read the [ggplot2 book](https://github.com/hadley/ggplot2-book). Skim [Wilkinson](http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/book/10.1007/0-387-28695-0). Read and study the pictures in Gelman&Hill (at least) chapter 3.

> - Presentation: using ggplot to re-create more figures in Gelman & Hill
> - Presentation: using yhat's [python ggplot](http://ggplot.yhathq.com/)

          
## 2015-02-10 markdown, rmd, and knitr

Read: [Reproducibility is still a challenge](http://ropensci.org/blog/2014/06/09/reproducibility/) and the [knitr](http://yihui.name/knitr/) documentation and demos. We will also discuss using git branches and making a pull request.

> - Presentation: using knitr with pdf and html; 
> - Presentation: controlling chunk options (sizes etc)

## 2015-02-12 lattice and rcharts

Read [Lattice](http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/book/10.1007/978-0-387-75969-2) and the quick start at [rCharts](http://rcharts.io). Read about [tidy data](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf) as the contract underlying all types of graphing.

> - Presentation: producing different graph types in lattice or ggplot
> - Presentation: using the different libraries of rcharts

## 2015-02-17 googlevis, histograms

Read: [Histogram package paper](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/histogram/histogram.pdf) and [Wickham and Deng](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/density-estimation.pdf). Browse [Rgooglevis examples](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/googleVis/vignettes/googleVis_examples.html and watch Rosling, [The Joy of Stats](http://www.gapminder.org/videos/the-joy-of-stats/).

> - Presentation: connecting R to googlevis
> - Presentation: 1d and 2d density plots (hexbins etc)

## 2015-02-19 ggvis and vega, bokeh

Read and run http://ggvis.rstudio.com/ and optionally http://bokeh.pydata.org; read the [Vega tutorial](http://trifacta.github.io/vega/).

> - Presentation: getting started with ggvis in rstudio
> - Presentation: bokeh quick start

## 2015-02-24 d3 and the dom and the console

For this week, read Murray, [Interactive Data Visualization for the Web](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/)

> - Presentation: 
> - Presentation: 

## 2015-02-26 d3 introbook; making a gist and a plunk

> - Presentation: making a plot with d3 in plunker and turning it into a gist
> - Presentation: something better than a bar plot?
             
## 2015-03-03 maps with base/lattice/ggplot/ggmap

> - Presentation: Making an nyc map in R and plotting things on it
> - Presentation: ggmap or geocoding with google maps in R or python

## 2015-03-05 maps in the browser (rmaps, d3)

Read the [introduction](http://bost.ocks.org/mike/map/) to geospatial data by Bostock as well as the [choropleth](http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/4060606) and the introduction to [Rmaps](http://rmaps.github.io) which is built on [Datamaps](http://datamaps.github.io) as well as leaflet. 

> - Presentation: Rmaps and/or leafletR / leaflet-shiny
> - Presentation: Bostock Let's make a map redux (acquire, transform, plot)
             
## 2015-03-10 blogposts presentations
## 2015-03-12 blogposts presentations
             
## 2015-03-17 **Spring break** 
## 2015-03-19 **Spring break**
             
## 2015-03-24 web services/python

> - Presentation: scraping something with beautifulsoup
> - Presentation: using twitter or yelp with python

## 2015-03-26 web services/r

> - Presentation: twitteR and Rfacebook
> - Presentation: scraping with rvest
             
## 2015-03-31 ipnb, beaker

> - Presentation: working with data across tools with beaker
> - Presentation: making and sharing iPython notebooks

## 2015-04-02 shiny and rjsonio

Read: [Research directions in data wrangling](http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/data-wrangling) and the [Shiny tutorial](http://shiny.rstudio.com).

> - Presentation: shiny app
> - Presentation: shiny app
             
## 2015-04-07 linked displays and brushing; parallel coordinates

Read [Heer et al, animated transitions](http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/animated-transitions/).

> - Presentation: fancy linked d3 parallel coordinates for another dataset
> - Presentation: another linked display (slider or brush)

## 2015-04-09 crossfilter, crosslet

> - Presentation: using crossfilter on some other data (acs? bls?)
> - Presentation: crosslet for citibike data?

## 2015-04-14 TBD

## 2015-04-16 TBD

## 2015-04-21 demo days teams 1-3
## 2015-04-23 demo days teams 4-6
             
## 2015-04-28 demo days teams 7-10
## 2015-04-30 Course and project review

Commit message:

add slottr sheet for week3

agenda.md, after:

## 2015-01-20 intro, some critiques, questionnaire
## 2015-01-22 analyze the [questionnaire](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19a0O6C14zButypjcnWictvKWeyPjPjQdrps-UXzPDf8/), set up your repo
             
## 2015-01-27 **Malecki out** [hadley video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TaxJwC_MP9Q)
## 2015-01-29 **Malecki out** [lisa video](https://archive.org/details/WhatMakesAGoodDataVisualization)
             
## 2015-02-03 Tufte; gh-pages and jekyll
### [Week 3 Signup](http://www.slottr.com/sheets/76533)
Read all of Tufte by this point.

Read the [jekyll/gh-pages basics](https://pages.github.com/) and a [more in-depth tutorial](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/01/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/), and/or yet [another tutorial](http://24ways.org/2013/get-started-with-github-pages/).

> - Presentation: some rules of thumb for good (static) graphs?
> - Presentation: serving jekyll locally; including different kinds of content
   
## 2015-02-05 ggplot and grammar

Fork, build, and read the [ggplot2 book](https://github.com/hadley/ggplot2-book). Skim [Wilkinson](http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/book/10.1007/0-387-28695-0). Read and study the pictures in Gelman&Hill (at least) chapter 3.

> - Presentation: using ggplot to re-create more figures in Gelman & Hill
> - Presentation: using yhat's [python ggplot](http://ggplot.yhathq.com/)

          
## 2015-02-10 markdown, rmd, and knitr

Read: [Reproducibility is still a challenge](http://ropensci.org/blog/2014/06/09/reproducibility/) and the [knitr](http://yihui.name/knitr/) documentation and demos. We will also discuss using git branches and making a pull request.

> - Presentation: using knitr with pdf and html; 
> - Presentation: controlling chunk options (sizes etc)

## 2015-02-12 lattice and rcharts

Read [Lattice](http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/book/10.1007/978-0-387-75969-2) and the quick start at [rCharts](http://rcharts.io). Read about [tidy data](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf) as the contract underlying all types of graphing.

> - Presentation: producing different graph types in lattice or ggplot
> - Presentation: using the different libraries of rcharts

## 2015-02-17 googlevis, histograms

Read: [Histogram package paper](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/histogram/histogram.pdf) and [Wickham and Deng](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/density-estimation.pdf). Browse [Rgooglevis examples](http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/googleVis/vignettes/googleVis_examples.html and watch Rosling, [The Joy of Stats](http://www.gapminder.org/videos/the-joy-of-stats/).

> - Presentation: connecting R to googlevis
> - Presentation: 1d and 2d density plots (hexbins etc)

## 2015-02-19 ggvis and vega, bokeh

Read and run http://ggvis.rstudio.com/ and optionally http://bokeh.pydata.org; read the [Vega tutorial](http://trifacta.github.io/vega/).

> - Presentation: getting started with ggvis in rstudio
> - Presentation: bokeh quick start

## 2015-02-24 d3 and the dom and the console

For this week, read Murray, [Interactive Data Visualization for the Web](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345/)

> - Presentation: 
> - Presentation: 

## 2015-02-26 d3 introbook; making a gist and a plunk

> - Presentation: making a plot with d3 in plunker and turning it into a gist
> - Presentation: something better than a bar plot?
             
## 2015-03-03 maps with base/lattice/ggplot/ggmap

> - Presentation: Making an nyc map in R and plotting things on it
> - Presentation: ggmap or geocoding with google maps in R or python

## 2015-03-05 maps in the browser (rmaps, d3)

Read the [introduction](http://bost.ocks.org/mike/map/) to geospatial data by Bostock as well as the [choropleth](http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/4060606) and the introduction to [Rmaps](http://rmaps.github.io) which is built on [Datamaps](http://datamaps.github.io) as well as leaflet. 

> - Presentation: Rmaps and/or leafletR / leaflet-shiny
> - Presentation: Bostock Let's make a map redux (acquire, transform, plot)
             
## 2015-03-10 blogposts presentations
## 2015-03-12 blogposts presentations
             
## 2015-03-17 **Spring break** 
## 2015-03-19 **Spring break**
             
## 2015-03-24 web services/python

> - Presentation: scraping something with beautifulsoup
> - Presentation: using twitter or yelp with python

## 2015-03-26 web services/r

> - Presentation: twitteR and Rfacebook
> - Presentation: scraping with rvest
             
## 2015-03-31 ipnb, beaker

> - Presentation: working with data across tools with beaker
> - Presentation: making and sharing iPython notebooks

## 2015-04-02 shiny and rjsonio

Read: [Research directions in data wrangling](http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/data-wrangling) and the [Shiny tutorial](http://shiny.rstudio.com).

> - Presentation: shiny app
> - Presentation: shiny app
             
## 2015-04-07 linked displays and brushing; parallel coordinates

Read [Heer et al, animated transitions](http://idl.cs.washington.edu/papers/animated-transitions/).

> - Presentation: fancy linked d3 parallel coordinates for another dataset
> - Presentation: another linked display (slider or brush)

## 2015-04-09 crossfilter, crosslet

> - Presentation: using crossfilter on some other data (acs? bls?)
> - Presentation: crosslet for citibike data?

## 2015-04-14 TBD

## 2015-04-16 TBD

## 2015-04-21 demo days teams 1-3
## 2015-04-23 demo days teams 4-6
             
## 2015-04-28 demo days teams 7-10
## 2015-04-30 Course and project review
